watch I'm going to take this Thunderbolt
cable connect these two computers drag
these giant files across
and Mama 800 megabytes per second that
is like installing the new Modern
Warfare in less than 5 minutes and I can
practically hear your chair scraping the
floor as you jump up to go and try this
but hold on a second you can't just plug
two computers together and transfer
files between them like that and you
especially can't run a game on one PC
and then play it completely losslessly
on another and yet here I am doing it
what you guys are looking at is in my
opinion finally the answer to what
exactly is it that makes Thunderbolt
special now that Intel gave the spec to
the USB if and if you're anything like
me your head is absolutely swimming with
questions right now how are they doing
lossless encoding what is is the latency
like do I really have to find out after
the segue to our sponsor headphone juice
is now something you should be proud of
these are your typical headphones that
accumulate heat while you game e Wicked
cushions add a cooling gel to their
cushions to keep your ears sweat free
you can easily replace them on your
headset check out Wicked cushions and
the link below what you were just
looking at is called Thunderbolt share
and it's in essence a piece of software
that establishes a point-to-point
network connection between two
Thunderbolt 4 or Thunderbolt 5 Windows
PCS it features exceptionally high
bandwidth and Hyper low latency which
kind of makes sense since you may recall
that Thunderbolt is essentially a four
lane wide pcie connection with extras
like USB for peripherals display port
for monitors and power for one cable
docking let's start by revisiting that
file transfer demo that I just showed
you guys because it's a the most obvious
use case for this and B the easiest to
understand in terms of the data flow our
files get pulled off of the SSD of the
first machine they get packed into
packets they flow through the
Thunderbolt chip through the thund
bullet cable and then they get unpacked
on the other side and dumped onto the
SSD now I'm still a strong advocate for
networked rather than point-to-point
data Management Solutions but in a pinch
guys you're at the hotel trying to back
up some footage to a colleague who's
flying home in the morning or you're at
a land and your buddy needs to grab a
game install this will allow data
transfers at theoretical speeds of up to
20 gbit per second for Thunderbolt 4 and
40 gbit for Thunderbolt 5 which would
bring that Modern Warfare install that I
talked about before down to under a
minute and other than high CPU usage
during the transfer and Thunderbolts 1 M
passive cable length limit there is no
downside it's just ripping fast now
let's push this button this is
incredible even with a 10 or 25 GB
network connection I have never in my
life seen a PC to PC game stream with
this little latency I mean I obviously
haven't measured it with a high-speed
camera yet I don't have one in my pocket
but to the eye I would describe the
latency as none and that's because every
other solution steamlink Moonlight Etc
relies on the GPU to render each frame
and code it with a significant loss of
fidelity and then transfer it to where
it needs to be where it is received
unpacked and then finally output to the
display by contrast this is not encoded
at all and before you call BS because
believe me I was thinking the same thing
have a look at this pudding because the
proof is in it while mirroring we find
none of the visual anomalies that I
would normally associate with even a
very high quality av1 stream and tap
task manager over here is picking up
some very serious bandwidth that is
coming over that virtual link about 4
gbit there is of course some
optimization taking place here Intel
created their own remote desktop
protocol that handles turning your
displays output into Thunderbolt packets
and that allows them to reduce bandwidth
by updating only changed elements on the
remote display but it does basically
what it says on the tin and we're a
little Cy about the details but as far
as I can tell that high CPU usage about
25% on a core Ultra 7 155h is just the
cost of doing business when you're
receiving a data stream this wide and
the GPU usage is the secret sauce that
makes this work so well Intel says they
are going straight from GPU frame buffer
on this side to GPU frame buffer on the
other side no storage bottleneck they
aren't even dumping it into RAM the
software is still still in Alpha with no
committed release date for now so we are
just scratching the surface of what a
link like this could unlock in the
future but I'm am already extremely
impressed by what I've seen and
imagining countless applications for
this I mean I showed you guys it goes
both ways right we can see the screen
from the one we can use the controller
from this one on the other one I mean
get this built into windows and you
wouldn't need a silly dual screen laptop
no offense no offense dual screen
laptops are great um just to you know
share content with a colleague you just
plug their computer into yours and Boop
Flawless oh here's another one this
would turn every outdated all-in-one or
a laptop as long as it has Thunderbolt 4
and up into a monitor also by the way
while you're ated Intel didn't talk to
them about this ahead of time Please
Release the remote desktop application I
know I'm an edge case but like I would
totally wire up my house for 25 gig
fiber if I could just have all my Compu
in a rack and then use thin clients for
everything of course
wires are pass now anyway let's move a
couple of Paces this way where Intel is
showing off their other next big thing
for connectivity I already got my first
taste of Wi-Fi 7 when I unboxed an eurom
mesh Wi-Fi kit over on short circuit and
being the cynic that I am I was blown
away when for once it actually delivered
on the kind of generational performance
upgrade that they claimed check this out
these are real world transfer speeds at
two three even in excess of 4 gabit per
second I me that is faster than what 99%
of people are getting with a wire right
now and this easily lives up to Wi-Fi
7's EHT or extremely high throughput
moniker now your first reaction is
probably why should I care I mean no
one's internet is that fast and okay
well first of all there are some people
princes need internet too but that is a
valid point I mean the services that you
use online are likely to be a bottleneck
before your Wi-Fi is at these kinds of
speeds except that Wi-Fi rarely performs
at Peak efficiency due to range
limitations it's not always going to be
like this not to mention Network
congestion so you're going to get some
fraction of that maximum speed and given
that it's a lot higher than it used to
be it's going to be a lot higher than it
used to be also this is perhaps more
important once everyone makes the switch
non-streaming data transfers will be
completed so much faster that it will
free up airtime for everyone else which
will help to Aid with congestion that's
just a small part of the justification
for the speed though this will enable
Wi-Fi to be used for completely new
applications I don't know about you but
I am tired of seeing 4K video touted as
a use case for the NextGen Wi-Fi didn't
you just tell me the old one was good
for that and I mean AK okay fair enough
but seems to have pretty much completely
petered out but a PC grade Wireless VR
headset with nearly native video quality
okay that is really exciting and there
is so much more it's felt for a long
time like each generation of Wi-Fi was
all about support for more devices
rather than making the one PC that I
have in my basement go faster not this
time one of the big keys to this is a
carryover from Wi-Fi 6 reduced
congestion thanks to support for the 6
GHz band part of this is that it just
hasn't gotten clogged up yet like the 5
GHz and especially 2.4 GHz bands but
much more significant is the fact that 6
GHz doubled the maximum Channel width to
320 MHz and there's the fact that Wi-Fi
7 can actually utilize connections on
more than one band at the same time time
using multi-link operation or mlo mllo
is sick depending on the radio
configuration it can enable either
higher overall throughput as data can be
broken up and transmitted over different
bands simultaneously or this is great
for the gamers out there lower latency
as low as 1 millisecond by utilizing the
first available band instead of being
forced to wait its turn like it would on
a single band let's go gamers another
Improvement for individual users comes
in the form of 4K QAM that's quadrature
amplitude modulation which is a method
for translating digital packets into
analog signals by varying the amplitude
and phase of the radio signal okay
that's a lot to digest but in a nutshell
instead of having a maximum of 1,24
values per symbol which is the smallest
amount of data that can be transmitted
we can have one of
4,096 values which results in about a 20
% transmission increase over Wi-Fi 6 all
other things being equal and of course
there are some multi-client things as
well Wi-Fi 6 added the ability for
multiple clients to transmit data to an
access point simultaneously this is
achieved through a technology called
ofdma which basically establishes
multiple subcarriers within Wi-Fi
channels these subcarriers are grouped
resource units which can each be
assigned to a client device well Wi-Fi 7
bands on this by allowing a client to be
assigned multiple resource units so
you're not leaving capacity that's just
sitting there unused when there aren't
many clients connected okay this is a
good thing for individuals as well man I
love this stuff um speaking of connected
clients Preamble puncturing was an
optional feature of Wi-Fi 6 that is now
enabled across the board and allows
modern devices to utilize channels that
are partly occupied by Legacy users
let's say for example an an old Wi-Fi IP
camera is using 40 MHz in the middle of
an otherwise unused 160 MHz wide Channel
well Preamble puncturing allows a Wi-Fi
6 or 7 device to recognize that the
channel is partially occupied and to
utilize all the unoccupied portions of
that channel so in our example that
would be 120 MHz of bandwidth where
under previous standards you'd be
limited to the largest contiguous unused
portion of the channel just 80 that was
done back then to avoid interference but
it left 40 MHz of bandwidth completely
unused there's more uh conversations
between APS and client devices are often
called spatial streams and without
boring you all completely to death
modern APS can deal with more than one
spatial stream at a time just how many
they can deal with is usually a spec on
the box with the ridiculous acronym of
mimo that is multi-user multiple input
multiple output and the values typically
look like 2x two 4x4 or hey maybe 8 by8
if you're a real baller the Wi-Fi 7 spec
now allows for up to 16 simultaneous
clients worth of input and output that
is 16x16 mu mimo but the reality of it
is most devices aren't going to
implement that I mean Wi-Fi 6 supported
8x8 but even a $600 Wi-Fi 6E router like
netgear's Nighthawk only implemented 4x4
and your laptop or smartphone is
probably only 2x two by the way on that
topic don't let manufacturers fool you
more antenna sticking out of a device
does not automatically equal better mimo
performance while it is true that 2x two
requires two antennas and 4x4 requires
four just because it has eight sticking
out of it like this Rog Rapture ax1000
doesn't mean it can do the maximum 8x8
of Wi-Fi 6C and the same will go for
Wi-Fi 7 in fact devices capable of Max
Wi-Fi 7 performance are going to be rare
if they exist at all and they're going
to come with a serious price tag but
even conservative implementations of
Wi-Fi 7 are going to bring us
significant improvements I mean maybe
your budget friendly router only
implements two band mllo but that is
still double the bands that you could
use before and now here's double the
Segway double the segue to our sponsor
are your headphones cushions H like a
tiny steam room stop steaming your ears
like your broccoli we get cushions offer
all sort of cushion replacement for your
headphones and it's not just your
regular cushions with added dual layer
cooling gel they ensure you keep a cool
head even your team is feeding looking
for a crack wikied cushion give you a
crack-free
comfort they use top-notch materials
like breathable sport Fabric and memory
form with over 25,000 reviews in a 365
days to 4 love warranty don't listen to
me listen to your ears this time check
out wiked cushions and the link below if
you guys enjoyed this video go check out
that short circuit where I unboxed that
Euro Wi-Fi 7 thing it's super expensive
and some of the features are locked
behind a pay wall that I'm kind of not
that into but it's fast it's really fast
like even on a phone like more than two
and a half gigabit what